{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 LN_dsPIC33_Sampler.rtf\par
06jan17 ndp\par
15jul20\par
\par
Log Notes for dsPIC33 High Speed Sampler\par
\par
ref1: dsPIC33_FRM_Osc.pdf\par
ref2: dsPIC33_FRM_ADC.pdf\par
\par
Target: Microchip dsPIC33 family, dsPIC33EP32MC202 @ 60Mips, 500kHz ADC, 2Mb serial Flash 10MHz\par
\par
04sep19\par
TODO:\tab Change I2C to revised layout. (../I2C_Reference/I2C_Ref.rtf)\par
\tab\strike Add Ext 5v input pins.\strike0  Power 3.3 is usually from FTDI serial.\par
\par
\par
\par
Open up MPLAB X IDE\par
File > New Project > Samples > dsPIC33 C Template (try this) > Next\par
Project Filename: dsPIC33_Sampler\par
Project Loacation: C:\\Data\\EmbeddedSystems\\Demo Boards\\dsPIC33\par
Project Folder: C:\\Data\\EmbeddedSystems\\Demo Boards\\dsPIC33\\dsPIC33_Sampler.X .. Set as Main Project\par
Propertues > Configuration > Device > dsPIC33EP32MC202  > Apply .. hmm\par
Family: 16-bit DSCs (dsPIC33) > Device > dsPIC33EP32MC202  > Compiler Toolchains > XC16 > XC16 (v1.30) > Apply > OK\par
Toolbar: Config: XC16_dsPIC33EP512MU810..hmm..no source errors now..ok..\par
Use main.c for most.\par
Use user.c to init hardware.\par
Open getting_started.tx file in project browser.. go to Windows > Tasks to get a list of set up tasks..ok.\par
Step 1: Clean and Build..try build initial set up..ok..\par
Step 2: configuration_bits.c set up .. Window > PIC Memory Views > Configuration Bits\par
Use 7.7.2.2 Exp 7-2[1] code for internal osc @ 60 MHz .. also turn off watchdog .. gen code..cut-n-paste to configuration_bits.c\par
Add main() code to system.c: ConfigureOscillator() .. leave Disable WDT code.. Clean and Build..ok..\par
07jan17\par
Step 3: Skip for now. No interrupts.\par
Step 4: system.h, .c. Hmm..nothing at the moment. ConfigureOscillator(void) already there.\par
Step 5: user.c, .h .. Configure I/O, ADC, etc... just I/O for now. RB4 pin 11 as output. Add LED function setLed(bool).\par
make some guesses on code based on data sheet section 11. Do perif mapping later.\par
Step 6: add some trivial loop code to blink LED..ok..plug in Uo for 3.3v and ICD 3..hmm, wrong target..\par
try setting EP32 (copy of EP512) as configuration..clean/build..hmm..config bits unknown..delete offending lines..\par
hmm..since setting target in config, different bits available. Redo 7.7.2.2 Exp 7-2[1] for Osc and gen code..try c/b..\par
ok..try make and prog to device..hmm..no errors, but no LED..try debug..DOH..not inc count..FIX..hmm..\par
try debug again..hmm..only runs in Debug (but very slow)..clock issue?..hmm, left out last line..FIX..try again..same..\par
FNOSC = FRC\tab 7.6 Table 7-4\par
try dropping clock..63 -> 10..debug is slower..no run yet..try N1=2..faster debug, no run..\par
try seting Analog to Digital..nope..add pull up to MCLR..YUP..runs now, but slow..code is minimal and flow is ok..\par
try..\par
FOSCEL:FNOSC=FRCPLL .. nope..\par
TUN<5:0> sets rate, NO, minor adj. FRCDIV..can control, starts at div 1..ok..USLESS RABBIT HOLE..\par
Was using int for counter, well half the time it's NEGATIVE and counter % ^ won't be 0 OR 6..FIX by using uint16_t \par
and ALL WORKS at speed (about 50 MHz).\par
08jan17\par
ADC[2] .. No DMA .. with OpAmps ..\par
\tab AN0\tab Ch0\tab\tab CH0Sx = 00000\par
\tab AN1\tab Ch1\par
\tab RB0\tab -Vref\tab\tab CH0Nx = 0, VCFG<2:0>\par
\tab RB1\tab +Vref\tab\tab VCFG<2:0>\par
Use Section 16 Example code 16-1[2] .. put initAdc1() code in user.c:InitApp() .. \par
Set SIMSAM = 1 for simultaneous sampling..CHPS<1:0> for channels 0 and 1 .. 0 for now..\par
Change AD1CHS0 = 0x0000; to use AN0 .. add led blinks to measure acquisition time..\par
\b TODO: Use AD1CON2:VCFG = b001 for Ext +VRef and AVss (frees up RB0)\b0\par
\b TODO: For two channel, set AD1CON2:CHPS = b01\b0\par
try it.. hmm about 75kHz (13us) per .. ok .. add some code to check data to threshold .. hmm .. no response ..\par
try uint16_t .. nope .. oops, wrong port .. FIX .. ok, works. Can try other combinations later..\par
commit ..\par
NEXT: four channels using +Vref=Vdd and -Vref=Vss\par
Ch0: AN3/RB1 (5)\par
CH2: AN1 (3)\par
Ch1: AN0 (2)\par
Ch3: AN2/RB0 (4)\par
19jan17\par
Change over to new ADC configuration, four channels.\par
MOD: user.c,.h : InitApp() .. change to select 1 ch or 4 ch config.\par
MOD:main.c to select either one or four chanel adc..try it..hmm..oops..x0200 is not bit 10, x0400 is..fix..\par
\b PROBLEM: Target Device ID (0x0) does not match expected Device ID (0x1c010000)\par
NOTE: Add 10k pull-down to PGC and PGD lines. ICD3 issue fix.\par
\b0 One channel working with 12bit now..try 4 chan..works..a little slow (13.4us convert)..try internal RC osc \par
AD1CON3 = 0x8000; // ADRC:IntRC, SAMC:n\\a, ADCS:n\\a\par
better..(11.94us)..hmm..Sect 16[2] says to use 40MHz to get 1.1MHz..change clock set up per Ex 16-3.\par
MOD: system.c : ConfigureOscillator() .. better..go back to 70MHz and adj TaD value..still works..ok.\par
20jan17\par
MOD: main.c, user.c - Added auto-sample/auto-convert to FOUR channel adc code.\par
ALL: Added MIT license to code.\par
Hooked up LED to pin25 (RB14/PWM1)\par
MOD: main.c, user.c to enable RB14 as output and toggle with 3 nops between toggles .. works .. 0.12us pulse..\par
6 instruction in 0.12us -> 50MHz .. hmm .. put in 7 nops for 10 inst per edge .. 0.2us with some 0.16us areas ..\par
Seems T\sub CY\nosupersub  is 50MHz. Should be 60MHz or the saleae pod is off a bit..increase to 20 Tcy..hmm..0.36 and 0.40..\par
try 100 Tcy..1.68 & 1.72us -> 58 to 59 MHz..so 25 MHz sampling of pod is issue..ok..\par
Save ADC as test002..start PWM stuff..not simple..\par
17mar17\par
Board built up except for audio pre-amp..power up MPLAB X IDE..call test001 code..Make and Program Device..\par
50 Hz LED Blink..IT'S ALIVE!!!!..cool..need a 3.3v FTDI or Bluetooth to read out data..next up try ADC code..\par
09sep17\par
ICD 3.. Debug > Test ..make sure to select serial number and not just ICD 3..ok with test board..works now.\par
Insupported interrupt going to trap..turn OFF TX Intr..ok..hmm, trace register settings, S17.pdf Sect 5.0 TX..\par
MOD test001 to load U1TXREG when LED is turned on. Should work w/o intr..ok..trace intr service def..at 9600 too..\par
data seems inverted..hmm, {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://microchipdeveloper.com/faq:77 }}{\fldrslt{http://microchipdeveloper.com/faq:77\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  - notes. Try in code..nope..try CCI syntax..\par
nope..(from trap.c) need a prototype of ISR??..try it..nope..try moving ISR into main()..YES??..hmm, put prototype \par
in main.c??..nope..try putting a function to call in serial.c..\b DOH, didn't add serial.c,.h to Projects > Source Files\b0  ..\par
FIX..Projects > Source Files > Add Existing Item.. and pick files..works now..sheesh..\par
\b NOTE:\b0  UTXINV bit controls output polarity.\par
\b NOTE:\b0  UTXBF bit = 1 if TX buffer fifo is full.\par
09sep19\par
Serial support. Add writeChar() and writeBuff(). ConfigureUART: dont use .bits for entire register set..\par
HAH, works now. Try for 115.2k now..change Processing3 code..ok, works..\par
12sep19\par
Revised ADC (test02)..5us -> 200KHz per 4 channel -> 800KHz total rate..cool..\par
TODO: Add interrupt service to transfer ADC data to buffer. Print out working, no interrupt yet.\par
13sep19\par
CHPS<1:0> = 1x = 3, ok.. SMPI<4:0> = 4 ? .. IFS0bits.AD1IF = 0, IPC3bits.AD1IP = 7 (highest), IEC0bits.AD1IE = 1 ..ok..\par
HAH, works now..format data out..ok, better. Now saving 512x4 samples in buffer.\par
17sep19\par
PWM .. ref: dsPIC33_FRM_PWM.pdf (S14.pdf) .. RB14/PWMH (RPI46) pin. \par
Use PWM1H. FP = 60HMz. IOCON1 and FCLCON1 are write-protected. (16.1.2 data sheet).\par
Use Standard Edge-aligned PWM.\par
\f1\tab PWMCON1bits.CAM = 0;\tab // For Edge-Aligned mode.\f0\par
ref: fig 14-35, Example 14.34\par
PHASE1 = 800;\tab\tab\tab // period\par
PDC1 = 200;\tab\tab\tab // duty cycle\par
DTR1 = 0;\tab\tab\tab // Dead time\par
ALTDTR1 = 0;\par
IOCON1 = 0xCC00;\tab\tab // PWM Mode to Independent\par
PWMCON1 = 0x0200;\tab\tab // Ind time base, edge-align, independent duty cycle\par
FCLCON1 = 0x0003;\tab\tab // Configure Faults\par
PTCON2 = 0x0000;\tab\tab // 1:1 prescaler\par
PTCON = 0x8000;\tab\tab // Enable PWM Mode\par
add to system.c .. configurePWM() .. try it.. works.. 60000=2kHz, 12000=10kHz periods.\par
For interrupt, try\par
\tab TRIG1 = 0x0010;\par
\tab PWMCON1bits.TRGIEN = 1;\par
\tab TRGCON1 = 0x0000;\par
\tab IFS5bits.PWM1IF = 1;        // enable by resetting interrupt flag?\par
\tab IPC23bits.PWM1IP = 0b001; //interrupt priority level 0 .?\par
blah..\par
\tab PTCONbits.SEIEN = 1;\par
nope..bug, fix..working..now to remove added code that may not be needed..TODO.\par
19sep19\par
Add audio code. Use Period=2048 (73.5kHz period sample time)\par
36750/256 = 143.5Hz so 146.83Hz (D3) 36750/x = 146.83, x=250.289. x*8 = 2002.\par
Test..185.2Hz..close..try 1800 accumStep ..=161.3Hz..try 1600..=142.8..1620..=144.9..use 1610.\par
610 -> 55.5 Hz..ok.\par
20sep19\par
Change R7 to 1k. Better. Added Tune code..add pause to notes..ok, working..\par
24sep19\par
Add envelope code..scaling problems..add P_IDLE state to end envelope, going back to P_ATTACK caused /0 error \par
due to counter at 0..fixed..steps have to equal 100% of duration or clicks are generated..working now.\par
28jun20\par
BUG: Four channel data is invalid.\par
Have interrupt place incrementing count as data into buffer to test transfer...works correctly..00 01 02 03..\par
So, ADC measured values have a problem..review manual Ch 16..system noise at about 200kHz..minor adjustments \par
to code..seems to work now.\par
15jul20\par
OpAmps clip at 2v. DC Bias is at 1.615v. Reduce signal. Audio still works. Snashot to SVN rev 340.\par
\par
15jul20\par
Project rev 341. \par
Modify dsPIC + Processing3 O-display to show serial data.\par
1. Change serial format to add sync 0xAA 0x55 before data. Change data to be 16 bit.\par
New format: AA 55 Ch0H Ch0L Ch1H Ch1L Ch2H Ch2L Ch3H Ch3L 0A\tab 11 bytes with '\\n' terminator.\par
Dump entire buffer every 2k samples.\par
Add a zero, F8 to 08, crossing trigger to start collection.\par
\par
\par
\par
2. Copy ..\\Software\\Processing3\\OScope code to ..\\Processing3\\OScope4Ch and add in code from SerialTest002 then \par
modify to accept new format.\par
\par
\par
}
 